# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Green Belt

You qualified for a Green Belt 🥋🟢 and got a final grade of 4.75/6 for M1. Great job! You're building solid foundations. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 4.62 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 4.5 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 5 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 5 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **4.75 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

- The screen is not fully responsive, for example when turning the screen in landscape mode. We recommend that you test on different screen sizes.
- The timer input should display the numerical keyboard instead of the normal one. Same for the Due Date, Due Time.
- Due Date input is not visible while writing (black text).
- The sign in with Google doesn't work on the APK.
- Bug: Location and Due Time input fields are empty when editing the ToDo.
- Bug: Empty location does not have any error display.
- There is no meaningful end-to-end test
- The branch naming convention are generally followed, they are a few branches that do not follow these.
- The wiki page is complete.
- Some PRs do not have any assignees, but you did good progress in the descriptions
- You could develop your README with a more detailed description of your project

For this part, you received 4.62 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

- The estimated time and the epic are missing for each tasks.
- Avoid having small tasks where 2 people are assigned. (for example in your architecture diagram tasks)


- State of the user stories are not tagged, unclear whether you are working on it or already completed it.
- This is more for convenience and organization: User story are not tasks, keep them as draft. They should still have clear labels such as priority or sprints

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

- Wireframes are missing, this should be done before the mockups to have a global idea of your app's structure.
- Your UI looks really nice.
- The Figma is up to date and shows future features.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

- The architecture diagram is clear and well-structured.
- A bit too abstract, the viewmodel names are missing.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

- According to the history of the standup documents, the sheets s2a and s2b were both created on thursday 16th. The two meetings should be held on different days. (If it was the case, please write directly in the sheet)
- Don't forget to write the date at the top
- You could put more effort in the writing process (typos, etc...).

- The meetings are dynamic and well organized, congrats!
- You all have a professional attitude and are on time

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 4.75. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!


