# SwEnt M2 Team Grading Report

The M2 feedback provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on how well your team has applied good software engineering practices, delivered user value, and collaborated effectively. We assessed the quality and maintainability of your implementation, the clarity of your design, and the consistency of your delivery and teamwork across Sprints. An important component is how much you have progressed since the previous milestone. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document. As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

## Green Belt

You qualified for a Green Belt 🥋🟢 and got a final grade of 4.9/6 for M2. Great job! You're building solid foundations. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into six categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                                   | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, code quality)**   | 4.38 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-code-quality) |
| **Features**                             | 5.5 out of 6   | 20%        | [See Details](#features)                  |
| **Figma and Architecture Diagram**       | 5.25 out of 6 | 10%     | [See Details](#figma-and-architecture-diagram) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog**     | 5.25 out of 6    | 10%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)**  | 5.5 out of 6 | 10%       | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents-autonomy) |
| **Consistent Delivery of Value**         | 4.5 out of 6 | 10%      | [See Details](#consistent-delivery-of-value) |
| **Final Grade**                          | **4.9 out of 6**   |            |                                           |

In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

---

## Implementation (APK, code quality)

We evaluated your APK’s functionality, stability, and user experience, along with the quality and consistency of your code. We also reviewed your CI setup, Sonar integration, and tests, including the presence of at least two meaningful end-to-end tests and the line coverage achieved.

UI/UX:
- The sign-in screen is not responsive, enable scrolling or be sure that it fits in a single screen (submit button was almost completely hidden on my phone format)
- Animations are really cool!
- When clicking on an event on the map, then to more details, it redirects to the general event list -> add some visual feedback to show what was clicked or open the modal sheet with the event's info
- You could make it more eplicit if some fields are not mandatory (small * for example)
- When creating an event or ToDo, instead of writing who is the assignee, linking it to the registered users or friends would be a good addition to the page
- Time information of an event is only visible if you are a the creator of the event
- You display the active ToDos on the homepage, the same for registered events could be good!
New event: date doesn't use a datepicker (same for time)

Bugs:
- When creating a ToDo if you click on save without having filled all the fields, the button gets disabled and never gets back it's original state (you cannot submit without leaving and comming again)
- When searching for friends, if there are no more match, the textfield disappears permanently
- End time of an event can be earlier than the start time
- After logout, you can click the back button, which will bring you back into the app without an account

Crashes:
- If you click on map, the app displays the authorization prompt, but dies in the backgound

Code quality:
- You planned to reduce them, but for now Sonar has found a considerable amount of issues and a percentage of code duplication that could be reduced

Testing:
- You made good efforts to reduce the undeterministic behaviour of your CI, but the facts that it can still randomly fail should be fixed ASAP.
- For the e2e tests, it is fine as this for now, but you could consider exploring failing paths (not only happy paths, try wrong inputs, ...)

For this part, you received 4.38 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Features

We evaluated the features implemented in this milestone. We looked for the completion of at least one epic, as well as the use of at least one public cloud service, one phone sensor, and a concept of authentication.
We assessed how well the implemented features align with the app’s objectives, integrate with existing functionality, and contribute to delivering clear user value.

- You use a sensor for the map, which is good, but for future improvements, you could use it elsewhere like in the tasks list to sort them
- You implemented good features, but some of them (see APK review) were not fully robust.

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma and Architecture Diagram

We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure. 

- Make sure you update the Figma before creating new screens in the app. The idea is for Figma to stay ahead of the app so you always have a clear visual guide for how the app should look.
- The UI looks really good.
- Some UI flows are broken (cannot go back)
- HomepageVM is not linked to the repositories in the architecture diagram.
- You can also add the upcoming features' architecture in the diagram.
- The GroupsVM are not linked to screens (you can already add them in your diagram and add a side note "to be implemented")

For this part, you received 5.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them. We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

- Your product backlog is very clear, the state of the user stories, the acceptance criteria and epics are present, which is good.
- One of the acceptance criteria is not met: "User can tap a marker to see full event details"
- Your sprint backlog is complete, with all tags filled. Some tasks do not have any descriptions.
- Make sure that the scrum board stays up-to-date, for instance, some tasks that are done were still in the review column.

For this part, you received 5.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)

We evaluated your ability to autonomously run and document the Scrum process. We looked at how well you documented your team Stand-Ups and Retrospectives for each Sprint. We also assessed your level of autonomy in organizing and conducting these ceremonies, defining and prioritizing user stories in your Product Backlog, and planning well-scoped Sprint tasks that lead to concrete, valuable increments.

- Make sure you follow the meeting process so you can conduct it smoothly and in a structured way, without us needing to intervene.
- Remember that PO should also speak about the sprint goal during the recap of the sprint and how well the team achieved them. (not a task level, but in terms of the user stories). Same for the next PO, he/she should present the goals of the coming week

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Consistent Delivery of Value

We reviewed your team’s ability to deliver meaningful increments of value at the end of each Sprint.  
We assessed whether your progress was steady, visible, and tied to concrete user value and app functionality, in line with your Product Backlog objectives.

- There appear to be challenges with sprint planning, as many tasks were not completed on schedule. Make sure workloads are well-balanced across the team so that commitments can be delivered within the sprint.

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M2 is 4.9/6. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Keep up the good work and good luck for the next milestone!